# Assignment 4: The Game of Life <br>

## Short Description:<br>
This program is meant to mimic John Horton Conway's Game of Life. It consists of an ADT, known as universe, that contains a 2d-array filled with booleans that are either true (alive) or false (dead). These cells change depending on the three rules found in Conway's game: Any live cell with two or three live neighbors survives, any dead cell with exactly three live neighbors becomes a live cell, and all other cells die. Amazing patterns or progressions can be witnessed using these rules.

## Build:<br>
A Makefile is provided and can be used to build the program. This can be accomplished within the directory where the program files are located by typing any of these commands: 'make', 'make all', 'make life'. The command 'make format' will format all of the source code along with the header files. If you would like to build the program manually, use the command 'clang -Wall -Wextra -Werror -Wpedantic -o life life.c universe.c'.

## Running:<br>
The format for running consists (./life **'input file'** **'output file'** **'toroidal or not'** **'silence ncurses'** **'number of generations'**) <br>

### 'Input Commands' <br>
-t&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Enables the toroidal universe <br>
-s&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Disable ncurses <br>
-n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Number of generations the universe goes through <br>
-i&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Input file to populate the universe <br>
-o&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Output file to print final state of universe <br>

## Cleaning: <br>
To remove all files that were generated by the compiler, type the command 'make clean’.
Another method would be to manually remove them which can be achieved by typing 'rm -f life *.o' 'rm -f universe *.o'

## Known Errors <br>
I tested my program before and after implementing ncurses with Valgrind and found that there were leaks after ncurses was implemented. People on the discord were saying that ncurses causes some leaks so that may be where the issue stems from. After my program was completely done, I tested it with ncurses and found that it was leaking "still reachable" memory. I commented out ncurses and there were no leaks. Therefore, I came to the conclusion that any leaks reported by Valgrind stem from ncurses rather than my code itself.

